---
title: week 51 summary
author: Trent1900
date: 2022-12-05 17:02:00 +1000
categories: [Blogging]
tags: [job hunting]
---

12 Dec 2022 to 18 Dec 2022

## Weekly forecast

- Work on Resume and job hunting

> I will fail often in order to succeed only once. ---by OG Mandino<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

### JobPin's work has been deployed to production. what a good news. people can use our resume builder function on website now.

> Go to the teams page, I can find my profile photo showed on the website!!!<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-info}

### weather APP

- [x] use the google place autocomplete API component to get address
- [x] after autocomplete API rerender the page, input box lose focus **resolve by adding an [autoFocus Attribute](https://github.com/hibiken/react-places-autocomplete#load-google-library) to the input node.**

> if need to get event and parameter at the same time, try the following method(Currying) 柯里化<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

```js
const handleSearchButton = (param) => async (event) => {
  return <div>something</div>;
};
```

- [x] when try to refactor above code to a 'normal arrow function', chrome keeps refreshes, I am worried about the free API quota/credit, so I decided to use vs debug instead of console log to find what is happening here.
- the above issue is solved, because there is a form onsubmit method, that bind to the function, change it to HOC.

- actually, that is not necessary. use this <!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

```js
const handleSearchButton = async (param) => {
  return (event) => {
    //do something with event
  };
};
```

- so the event can be 'caught' by the returned arrow function inside the async function.

### build a proxy server to store API key.

- to protect the API key, I will build a proxy server to forward the GET request with API key stored on proxy server.
- concept:
  1. build the server to handle request weather data and send it back to frontend.
  2. front end send request with city location & query param(air quality) to server for auto complete
  3. server return the address suggestions for processing
  4. by selecting the address, front end send the lon/lat data to backend
  5. backend use async request to get weather data and send to front end
- Steps
  1. write the very simple index.js for the node js server.
  2. send lat & lon to server and server console log / send it back to front(need routing, parsing)

### AWS S3 delete issue

- only the creator can delete S3 bucket by default(root user cannot delete a bucket created by the other user)

## Weekly summary

1. API key can be stored as environment parameter on AWS as backend deployment(amplify can handle the environment variables).[likn](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amplify/latest/userguide/environment-variables.html)<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}
