---
title: week 1 2023
author: Trent1900
date: 2022-12-28 17:02:00 +1000
categories: [Blogging]
tags: [aws study]
---

26 Dec 2022 to 1 Jan 2023

## Weekly forecast

- Work on aws and previous project summary

> I will act now. ---by OG Mandino<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

### Error when try to host Unicorn web on Amplify

```console
Please sign in to access the item on ArcGIS Online.
```

- according to the [link](https://support.esri.com/en/technical-article/000012364), the cause could be the s3 bucket where I copy my repo is in US server, thus the GIS map is also the US one, that does not work on the sydney server. Let's try to switch to the US local one.

> update on 28 Dec. according to [link](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-serverless-webapp-workshop/issues/30) by jeffsec-aws, one of the library needs to be updated from 4.3 to 4.23 with a different public ID. change version from 4.3 to 4.23 solved the problem though.<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-info}

- actually, 4.6 worked for it.

### set a git remote origin from CLI

> git remote set-url origin http://new.url.here, after that, git push -u remote origin<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-info}

- You can create multiple API keys with different restrictions to use them safely. For embedding a map, the Google Maps documentation has instructions for creating a correctly restricted API key so that it cannot be abused for other purposes at Get an API Key - Restricting API keys. It's OK to include a restricted API key in your source code, because you cannot embed a map properly without doing that anyway.

### pip install need update

> try pip 3 install then<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-info}

## AWS

### S3

| one zone infrequently access | S3 infrequent access     | S3 glacier  |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------ | ----------- |
| 30% cheaper                  | cheaper than S3 standard | for archive |
| zone down then no access     |                          |             |

> DocumentDB has a 400KB max to upload files. <!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-info}

> npx nodemon index 临时全局 temp + global, 更常用于 create react app.
> nodemon dev dependency better: `npm i -D nodemon`

## Weekly summary

1. API key can be stored as environment parameter on AWS as backend deployment(amplify can handle the environment variables).[likn](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amplify/latest/userguide/environment-variables.html)<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}
