---
title: week 2 2023
author: Trent1900
date: 2023-1-2 19:02:00 +1000
categories: [Blogging]
tags: [aws study]
---

2 Jan 2023 to 9 Jan 2023

## Weekly forecast

- Work on backend cms

> I will persist until I succeed ---by OG Mandino<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

### express.Router

> Use the express.Router class to create modular, mountable route handlers. A Router instance is a complete middleware and routing system; for this reason, it is often referred to as a “mini-app”.<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-info}

```js
const taskRouter = express.Router();
// 缺省tasks directory
taskRouter.get("", getAllTasks);
taskRouter.get("/:id", getTaskById);
taskRouter.post("", newTasks);
taskRouter.put("/:id", updateById);
taskRouter.delete("/:id", deleteById);

module.exports = taskRouter;
```

- so taskRouter is like a mini-app, because on app, we can also register the node(endpoint) and handler/middleware-function to it, only need to expose it by module.exports = taskRouter.
- as `taskRouter` is a module(function), so it can be used in `app.use('/tasks',taskRouter)`.

### create a new data to document in mongoDB

```js
const newUser = new userModel(userObj);
await newUser.save();
```

- userObj must be a object that meet the requirement from the userModel schema.

### middleware

1. cors
2. dotenv
   - change of dotenv file request a restart of node server, with command `rs` in console.
3. morgan
   > log the request origin, request time and so on<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

```js
const morgan = require("morgan");
app.use(morgan());
```

3. helmet

   > protect the header<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

- check with postman, header section.'x-powered-by' info will be covered.(server normally not update after deploy, with newer version released, the bugs in the previous version will become public known bugs.)

4. winston
   - control level, output directory/database/logger library.

### mongoose findOneAndUpdate()

- As the name implies, findOneAndUpdate() finds the first document that matches a given filter, applies an update, and returns the document. By default, findOneAndUpdate() returns the document as it was before update was applied.

> You should set the `new` option to `true` to return the document after `update` was applied.<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

> findOneAndX and findByIdAndX functions support limited validation. You can enable validation by setting the `runValidators` option.If you need full-fledged validation, use the traditional approach of first retrieving the document. 用了 findAnd 的话,validator 会不好使.想要 validator 要用传统方法,save()<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

```js
const doc = await Model.findById(id);
doc.name = "jason bourne";
await doc.save();
```

> 数据验证可以单独写,写一次,前后端都可以用.<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

> 永远不要相信客户端发送过来的数据,一定要自己验证一遍!!! important to validate the data from frontEnd<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

> regex101 can interpret the regex and test it, handy website.

### use Joi for validation

- two steps validation:
  1. a schema is constructed
  2. the value is validated against the defined schema:

```js
const schema = Joi.string().email();
const validation = schema.validate(email);
```

### error middleware

- express async error will auto create one error handler.
- if 'express async error' package is used in express 4, error middleware must be registered after the route handler(s).
- index.js(error md) should be placed at the bottom of the error middleware chain to send 500 error, and should record error and user behavior if possible for troubleshooting.

> 有写 next() 一定要加 return, in error middleware, return should be added to next().<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

### customized schema method

- customized schema methods with the cod, and then all instances of mySchema has their own method called hashPassword.
  > remember customized schema methods need to be registered before model forming.<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

```js
mySchema.methods.hashPassword = async function () {
  this.password = await bcrypt.hash(this.password, 12);
};
module.exports = model("yourdocument", mySchema);
// after doing so, all instances of schemaA has their own method called hashPassword.
```

> Do not declare methods using ES6 arrow functions (=>). Arrow functions explicitly prevent binding this, so your method will not have access to the document and the above examples will not work.<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

### token generate and validate

- generate token when user try to register or login
- verify token using the middleware authGuard.

> status(401)meaning unauthorized<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

### bcrypt hash and compare is async

- need add async and await 不然会出错

### test Jest

- 函数 B.toHaveBeenCalled(参数 A)表示测试的时候,参数 A 会被传入函数 B,如果传入的不是 A,则会报错,这个语句在 res.status(201).json({})时候很有用.
-
