---
title: handle JWT token when logout
author: Trent1900
date: 2023-7-2 22:02:00 +1000
categories: [Blogging, jwt]
tags: [logout]
---

### handle JWT token in logout section

- JWT is stateless, meaning jwt is not stored in server/backend. JWT issues and validates the token by itself. thus, it is not possible to "destroy" the token at the server side.

#### Frontend

- Upon log out, delete the stored token from the client-side to prevent further usage. and wait until the token expired.
- before expiry, this token will still be valid and can be used in other microservices, and this could be a potential risk in some cases when a higher security level is needed.

### backend

- if we require a strict log out functionality that cannot rely on token auto-expiration, we can consider the following solution:

> silent refresh<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

1. Set a reasonable expiration time on tokens to enforce automatic expiration with a silent refresh.

> Implement a "Blacklist" mechanism to track invalidated tokens.<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

2. This can be achieved by using a database with a TTL (Time-to-Live) feature, where each token is stored with an expiration time.

> consider using Redis<!-- prettier-ignore -->
{:.prompt-tip}

3.Redis is a fast in-memory database, for efficient Blacklist management and token validation.By implementing this approach, we can add an extra layer of security and ensure that unauthorized or invalidated tokens are rejected during authorized requests.
